render 10 times faster in Cycles using
this easy trick no rendering faster in
Cycles is a matter of building an
optimized scene strategically degrading
quality and troubleshooting renders in
other words you have to understand how
this stuff works and when you do you
won't need tricks I will show you how I
optimized this render which is my
submission for Clint's staircase
competition it crashed every every time
it crashed I made the whole thing on a
laptop while traveling and I pushed it
too far so let's start there what if you
crash this is a series about
optimization I've explained how to make
your file size smaller open speed faster
and viewport more responsive the full
playlist is in the
description if you can't render you're
likely on a GPU and you likely feel like
this guy doing this the graphics card
has its own memory in my laptop's case
it's 4 GB which means that blender can
use no more than 4 GB to render or it
crashes on windows open a task manager
with control shift escape this graph is
your vram if it gets to the top and you
crash that's the problem if not check
this one that's the ram by the way on
Windows press Windows control shift B
that restarts the GPU and often frees up
some memory large image textures eat
vram 4K 88k 16bit and 32bit in the
outliner the data API view shows every
image in the scene and where it is
stored open them up in an image editor
like Photoshop resize them and turn down
the bit depth I use an add-on for this
it's called to optimize tools it shows
every image in the scene sorted by file
size and one click and it deletes all
duplicates but the most important
feature is the built-in image resizer
select the worst offenders in the list
and press resize I pulled everything
down to 1K which took 370 megabytes out
of my total 430 with one click the same
add-on analyzes every material to see
its impact when you have a heavy
material it's usually because of high
detailed noises bevels and ambient
occlusion this was fun I did something
I've never had to do before and I'm so
excited because this is how the big
studios render separate view layer
think of cutting up the image into
different depths and rendering one slice
at a time with this vram is no longer a
limit a bit outside the scope of this
video but Badger me in the comments if
you want a
video optimizing the render starts here
not here the scene itself matters
outside scenes are quick and inside
scenes are slow do you know why do you
know why light objects render faster
than emissive materials it's all in how
a path Tracer works and I won't get into
that but I promise if you learn it
yourself you won't need tips that said
here are five tips check that all the
normals are blue bad normals can ruin a
render not this one uh this one for
interiors try to open up a wall I
deleted the whole ceiling this is my
render and here without fog it's just
not as cool but fog takes a million
years to render so
is there a viable
alternative kind of let's break it down
Cycles renders two volume passes direct
and indirect direct has the light rays
indirect has the ambient Haze blur the
image and mix in a Mist pass and mix it
over itself that's not too bad render
the scene in Eevee and output a volume
pass so get that into the mix and we
have something
workable
[Music]
as a rule you can substitute quality for
render speed but you can pull down
quality where quality doesn't matter
like a background prop can look terrible
but it's fine noise threshold how clean
does a pixel get before it's considered
done here's a cheat sheet for you what
does each threshold look like and how
slow is it there is an alternative to
noise threshold SC scrambling distance
set scrambling distance to automatic and
pull down the slider there's a huge
change in how cycle samples the scene it
reduces the randomness between samples
to improve performance drastically I do
not recommend this for animations
because it often creates flickering
between frames but for Stills this is
great turn down Ray bounces each step
looks a little worse you'll have to
experiment with these you know the D
noise boiling to reduce it use temporal
denoising instead it looks at a series
of images and makes transition smoother
Ai upscaling and interpolation if you
can cut the resolution in half you
reduce render Time by a factor of four
and if you render only every other image
you have it persistent data keeps some
files in Ram from frame to frame I keep
this on and turn it off if I get bugs or
need to free up ram my math sucks but
here's my thinking say say one frame
renders in 10 minutes with some work you
could cut half a minute how much time
should you spend on that with 200 frames
you'll save about 100 minutes it pays to
spend some time and I say all that to
justify the insane thing that I'm about
to do who thinks about loading time
right here are all the loading messages
from my last render and here they are in
Excel this this column shows the time
each thing started I'm writing a very
simple formula here the next items time
minus the current items time that makes
for the duration of this item let's now
sort by duration at the top now I see
things that took the longest then I'll
have to make a judgment about why they
took so long maybe the files are heavily
compressed or they're on a slow hard
drive or they're insanely big how did I
get this render log well it comes with
my render manager flamco flamco is a
free program by blender for Studios I
use it for myself here's how it works
when I'm ready to render I press submit
to flamco and it shows up in the flamco
queue I keep working on other things add
more renders to the queue and when I'm
done for the day I start the flamco
worker app it picks up the first render
on the list and starts rendering and it
renders from this text window so it uses
less memory than rendering from blender
wood when it's done it moves on to the
next render I wake up the next day and
everything's rendered it also gave me
the text file for loading times which I
converted to a spreadsheet with a python
script I wrote you can have it it's on
my gumroad
free how do we look at a render to find
the sources of noise I've got every
render path enabled excess noise
especially fireflies usually come from
just one bad material or light to figure
out which I Circle the noisy areas using
The annotation tool I have made a new
view layer with a white material
override so if the noise is gone in
these areas that means it comes from bad
materials if not it comes from bad
lights I know that very glossy and bumpy
materials often cause noise in the
glossy direct and indirect passes I have
this lacquered wood that I have to
check these bright pixels are fireflies
they come from lights that are small
strong and close to a surf
in my case the Torches are obvious
suspects I have three options make the
lights bigger make them weaker or move
them away from the torch there is one
more option but it is
forbidden you're messing with light
values which is not
okay you make the image
ugly often noise comes from a single
light to isolate the lights you can can
use light groups make a few groups in
the view layer Tab and assign each light
to a group in the lights object tab now
it's possible to see what lights make
what
noise to begin I made fun of tutorials
that promise a 10-fold cut in render
time but if you followed every step I
wouldn't be surprised if you did cut it
10-fold but the point is that you can
make much better decisions if you
understand how this works instead of
checking boxes people tell you to
including me don't listen to me learn it
but listen to me in the next video which
is about the images that you save and I
think it might just blow your mind a
little
bit